Right now on United Pixelworkers, you can buy all sorts of unique shirts for the pixel geek in your life. The site’s design employs some of the same tactics we’ve seen in recent weeks, including effective use of negative space and a gallery layout through which they display their wares. Initial blush seems to indicate that they sell a variety of shirts on this site….and little more. This appears to be the primary purpose of UPW, and according to the blog, they re-launched with this design (no indications as to what the “old” design was…out with the old and don’t look back, right?) and have experienced pretty wild success with it.

To be fair, UPW isn’t necessarily touting the design/layout of the website as a major factor to its 2012 success. But rather, they attribute their recent spike in success to functions of the website (i.e., HOW they sell t-shirts). As a self-purported “fake union,” this site attempts to further the myth by selling shirts representing their fake union via state-specific ‘symbols.’ Some of these state/symbolized shirts have a shorter “shelf life” than others, meaning they are for sale only for a limited time. This contributes to their uniqueness (and the old selling rule of supply and demand, too). This tactic is likely a major contributor to the UPW’s 2012 success.

UPW contains other pages that may interest its patrons, such as a “jobs” link and the aforementioned blog. Additionally, they offer their customers a place to show off their purchase (and help UPW’s advertising cause in the process…smart chaps, yes!). This is achieved by UPW patrons applying the hash tag #uprollcall to their tweets containing UPW gear. It’s a fancy advertising twist for the ego-driven digital world in which we live. UPW simply encourages their patrons to post photos of themselves wearing their UPW t-shirts and promises to broadcast those photos via their website in return. It’s like taking candy from a baby, or in this case, getting a baby in a UPW t-shirt to stop and pose for a picture. In all, if United Pixelworkers’ success hinges on the self-glorifying desires of its patrons, I’d like to invest in this company as soon as possible. 
