MSU mobile website, m.msu.edu has a basic, if not boring, look and feel to it. But for all it lacks in flash and bang, it makes up for in straight forward functionality and ease of use. Creatively, there’s little fanfare with m.msu.edu, but functionally speaker, it’s largely a hit. The main page uses a gallery, icon-driven approach to navigation and offers the user several areas to further explore. From “Area Maps” to “Libraries” to a direct link to the “Full Site,” m.msu.edu fully delivers on the University’s mission “to aggregate and deliver useful, usable, mobile-appropriate content to the University’s community.”

Within the site, users experience several mobile web-mechanisms to aid usability. A quick jump to the “Athletics” link reveals a link to the “MSU Athletics mobile site” as well as several links prescribed to offer what most users may seek. This primarily includes links to the Twitter feeds of entities such as the Men’s Basketball Program, the Hockey team, and the twitter feed of Athletic Director Mark Hollis. These links are made accessible through a simple site list with chevrons. Again, it’s less about frills and more about functionality.

While this approach works well for many navigation needs, it’s not the only way to deliver content. Unfortunately for m.msu.edu, it’s the most commonly used method and one that, in some cases, requires a bit of finger fighting to get to the desired content. As an example, the “Maps” section on the main screen leads you to another page with a single item list (with chevron again) and a search box at the top. This isn’t the end of the world, but it is a tad boring. 

In contrast, a visit to the “Libraries” icon on the main page takes the user to another lengthy list of chevroned items which includes library hours, locations and a host of other useful links. The point of this contrast is to shine a light on the styling used on the libraries page. Where other lists show the basic greyscale and chevron approach, the libraries page includes colors and a shadowed chevron that appears out of negative space. While performing little in the functionality department, we see a move toward a more visually appealing mobile site here. In all, I think this is where we are and will continue to see the next level of design for m.msu.edu.
